[[!meta  title="Sort servers by round trip time"]]
[[!meta  date="2008-10-03 19:00:04"]]
A simple (and rather dumb) python script to sort a list of servers by round trip (aka. ping) time: <a href="wp-content/uploads/2008/10/serversort-01a.tbz">serversort 0.1a</a>.

<strong>update: </strong> 0.1a. Fixed: NetBSD and OpenBSD have different versions of ping than FreeBSD. Why can't anyone ever agree on anything? 

README below the fold.
<!--more-->

serversort 0.1a
M.Rampke, 2008-10-03

*Provided without any warranty*
*Do what thou wilt shall be the whole of the Law.*

This is a simple python script to sort a list of servers based on their ping time. Servers not responding within one second are ignored.

The list of servers is read from serversort.txt, except otherwise specified on the command line. The sample serversort.txt contains a list of (mostly German) DNS servers compiled from various sources, including some duplicates. use with caution.

The script relies on the operating system's ping command. I have tested it on Darwin (Mac OS X 10.5), FreeBSD (PC-BSD 7) and Linux (Ubuntu 8.04.1). It should work on Systems based on BSD, Darwin and Linux. Other systems will require modifications: if yours has a GNU or BSD userland, adjust the "sys.platform" tests. Otherwise add the appropriate pingcmd statement. If the round trip time is not printed in the max/avg/min/stddev format, regex magic will be required.



[[!taglink  Allgemein]]
[[!taglink  bsd]]
[[!taglink  linux]]
[[!taglink  programming]]